feat: add Kestra ION blog (#1957)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/2024-11-18-kestra-ion.md

---
title: "Why Kestra relies on ION and how to use it"

> description: This blog elaborates on how Kestra is centralized around ION, and how its internal storage only supports ION format. It also details how this helps standardize ETL and data processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Why Kestra is centralized around ION, and how its internal storage only supports ION format. It also details how this helps standardize ETL and data processing.
```

> date: 2024-11-18T11:00:00

Reviewer: Will need changing

category: Solutions
author:
  name: Shruti Mantri

>   role:

Reviewer: Not required
```suggestion
```

  image: smantri
---

Kestra is a powerful orchestration tool that integrates with multiple data stores across different cloud environments, such as AWS, GCP, and Azure. It supports a wide range of databases, both relational and non-relational, as well as various file systems that store data in formats like CSV, Avro, Parquet, JSON, and more. With such a diverse set of data sources, it was essential to unify all incoming data into a common format. This is where Kestra had to decide how to manage and store the diverse data it ingests from various sources.

## Kestra's Internal Storage

Kestra decided to adopt **ION format** for all the data stored in its internal storage. Regardless of the original format of the incoming data, Kestra transforms it into ION format before storing it.

> Amazon Ion is a richly-typed, self-describing, hierarchical data serialization format offering interchangeable binary and text representations. The ION format comes with multiple benefits, and you can read more about its advantages [here](https://amazon-ion.github.io/ion-docs/guides/why.html).

Reviewer: Would be good to list a couple benefits here too?

By standardizing on the ION format for internal storage, Kestra ensures flexibility in handling any type of data. This approach eliminates the overhead of dealing with multiple data formats and helps standardize ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) and data processing across systems.

## Standardized ETL

Let's explore how Kestra's decision to store data in the ION format has helped standardize its ETL workflows. Consider a pipeline that pulls data from Snowflake, joins it with data from a MySQL table, and outputs the results as a CSV file to S3.

> As a prerequisite, we will push the orders data from the CSV file into Snowflake. Yon can do it using SQL commands in the Snowflake console or a simple Kestra flow as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a prerequisite, we will push the orders data from the CSV file into Snowflake. Yon can do it using SQL commands in the Snowflake console or a short Kestra flow as shown here:
```

```yaml
id: load_data_into_snowflake
namespace: company.team

tasks:
  - id: download_csv
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.http.Download
    uri: https://huggingface.co/datasets/kestra/datasets/raw/main/csv/orders.csv

  - id: create_table
    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.snowflake.Query
    url: jdbc:snowflake://<account_identifier>.snowflakecomputing.com
    username: "{{ secret('SNOWFLAKE_USER') }}"
    password: "{{ secret('SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD') }}"
    sql: |
      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS my_db.my_schema.orders (
        order_id INT,
        customer_name STRING,
        customer_email STRING,
        product_id INT,
        price DECIMAL,
        quantity INT,
        total DECIMAL
      )

  - id: load_data_to_stage
    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.snowflake.Upload
    url: jdbc:snowflake://<account_identifier>.snowflakecomputing.com
    username: "{{ secret('SNOWFLAKE_USER') }}"
    password: "{{ secret('SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD') }}"

>     from: '{{ outputs.download_csv.uri }}'

Reviewer: Making quotes consistent

```suggestion
    from: "{{ outputs.download_csv.uri }}"
```

    fileName: orders.csv
    prefix: raw
    stageName: "@my_db.my_schema.%orders"

  - id: load_data_to_table
    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.snowflake.Query
    url: jdbc:snowflake://<account_identifier>.snowflakecomputing.com
    username: "{{ secret('SNOWFLAKE_USER') }}"
    password: "{{ secret('SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD') }}"
    sql: |
      COPY INTO my_db.my_schema.orders
      FROM @my_db.my_schema.%orders
      FILE_FORMAT = (TYPE = 'CSV' FIELD_OPTIONALLY_ENCLOSED_BY = '"' SKIP_HEADER = 1);
```

> And we will upload the products from the CSV file into MySQL. Again, this can be done using SQL commands in any MySQL client or a simple Kestra flow as shown here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And we will upload the products from the CSV file into MySQL. Again, this can be done using SQL commands in any MySQL client or a short Kestra flow as shown here:
```
